README.rst, before:

==============
pytest-pyvista
==============
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pytest-pyvista.svg?color=orange&label=pypi&logo=python&logoColor=white
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista?color=orange&label=conda-forge&logo=conda-forge&logoColor=white
    :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: conda-forge version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pytest-pyvista.svg?color=orange&logo=python&label=python&logoColor=white
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: Python versions

.. image:: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
    :alt: GitHub Actions: Unit Testing and Deployment

Plugin to test PyVista plot outputs.

----

This `pytest`_ plugin was generated with `Cookiecutter`_ along with
`@hackebrot`_'s `cookiecutter-pytest-plugin`_ template.


Features
--------
This plugin facilitates the comparison of the images produced by `PyVista`. It
generates a cache of images from the tests, using the `PyVista` plotting
function in its first execution. Then, further executions will compare its
results against this cache, so if there are any changes in the code that break
the image generation, the comparison against the cache will notice it. Note
that there is an error tolerance in the comparison, so minor differences won't
fail.


Requirements
------------
You must have a Python version >= 3.9, as well as PyVista installed
in your environment.

pyvista version >=0.37.0 and vtk version >=9.0.0 required.

Installation
------------
You can install "pytest-pyvista" via `pip`_ from `PyPI`_::

    $ pip install pytest-pyvista

Alternatively, you can also install via `conda`_ or `mamba`_ from `conda-forge`_::

    $ mamba install -c conda-forge pytest-pyvista

Usage
-----
Once installed, you only need to use the command `pl.show()` in your test. The
plugin will automatically manage the cache generation if it does not exist, and
the image comparison itself. Make sure you enable `pv.OFF_SCREEN` when loading
PyVista, so the `pl.show()` doesn't pop up any window while testing.  By default,
the verify_image_cache fixture should be used for each test for image comparison::

    import pyvista as pv
    pv.OFF_SCREEN = True
    def test_succeeds(verify_image_cache):
        pl = pyvista.Plotter()
        pl.add_mesh(pyvista.Sphere(), show_edges=True)
        pl.show()


If most tests utilize this functionality, possibly restricted to a module,
a wrapped version could be used::

    @pytest.fixture(autouse=True)
    def wrapped_verify_image_cache(verify_image_cache):
        return verify_image_cache


If you need to use any flag inside the tests, you can modify the
`verify_image_cache` object in the test::


    import pyvista as pv
    pv.OFF_SCREEN = True
    def test_succeeds(verify_image_cache):
        verify_image_cache.windows_skip_image_cache = True
        pl = pyvista.Plotter()
        pl.add_mesh(pyvista.Sphere(), show_edges=True)
        pl.show()


Global flags
------------
These are the flags you can use when calling ``pytest`` in the command line:

* ``--reset_image_cache`` creates a new image for each test in
  ``tests/plotting/test_plotting.py`` and is not recommended except for
  testing or for potentially a major or minor release. 

* You can use ``--ignore_image_cache`` if you want to
  temporarily ignore regression testing, e.g. on a particular CI action.

* When using ``--fail_extra_image_cache`` if there is an extra image in the
  cache, it will report as an error.
  
* ``--generated_image_dir <DIR>`` dumps all generated test images into the provided
  directory.  This will override any configuration, see below.

* ``--add_missing_images`` adds any missing images from the test run to the cache.

* ``--image_cache_dir <DIR>`` sets the image cache directory.  This will override any
  configuration, see below.

* ``--reset_only_failed`` reset the image cache of the failed tests only.

Test specific flags
-------------------
These are attributes of `verify_image_cache`. You can set them as ``True`` if needed
in the beginning of your test function.

* ``high_variance_test``: If necessary, the threshold for determining if a test
  will pass or not is incremented to another predetermined threshold. This is
  currently done due to the use of an unstable version of VTK, in stable
  versions this shouldn't be necessary.

* ``windows_skip_image_cache``: For test where the plotting in Windows is different
  from MacOS/Linux.

* ``macos_skip_image_cache``: For test where the plotting in MacOS is different
  from Windows/Linux.

* ``skip``: If you have a test that plots a figure, but you don't want to compare
  its output against the cache, you can skip it with this flag.

Configuration
-------------
If using ``pyproject.toml`` or any other 
`pytest configuration <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/reference/customize.html>`_
section, consider configuring your test directory location to
avoid passing command line arguments when calling ``pytest``, for example in
``pyproject.toml``:

.. code::

   [tool.pytest.ini_options]
   image_cache_dir = "tests/plotting/image_cache"

Additionally, to configure the directory that will contain the generated test images:

.. code::

   [tool.pytest.ini_options]
   generated_image_dir = "generated_images"


Contributing
------------
Contributions are always welcome. Tests can be run with `tox`_, please ensure
the coverage at least stays the same before you submit a pull request.

License
-------
Distributed under the terms of the `MIT`_ license, ``pytest-pyvista`` is free
and open source software.


Issues
------
If you encounter any problems, please `file an issue`_ along with a detailed
description.

.. _`Cookiecutter`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`@hackebrot`: https://github.com/hackebrot
.. _`MIT`: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
.. _`BSD-3`: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
.. _`GNU GPL v3.0`: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt
.. _`Apache Software License 2.0`: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. _`cookiecutter-pytest-plugin`: https://github.com/pytest-dev/cookiecutter-pytest-plugin
.. _`file an issue`: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/issues
.. _`pytest`: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest
.. _`tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`pip`: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
.. _`PyPI`: https://pypi.org/project
.. _`conda`: https://github.com/conda/conda
.. _`mamba`: https://github.com/mamba-org/mamba
.. _`conda-forge`: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista

Commit message:

Add `failed_image_dir` option (#171)
* Add fail_unused_cache option

* Add failed_image_dir option

* Refactor

* Update readme

* Update test docstring

* Include JSON with error values

* Avoid race conditions and save separate tmp JSON files

* Remove dir only if exists

* Remove saving error to JSON

* Save generated image before image comparison

* Update test

* Rename _get_dir_from_config_or_ini to _get_option...

* Add failed_image_dir to configuration

* Make sure pytest is actually called for all tests

* Refactor _save_failed_test_images

* Rename param name to 'option' in get_option_from_config

* Refactor removing plotter close callback into a function call

* Copy generated image instead of using plotter.screenshot

* Rename internal variable name in get_option_from_config

* Save img using plotter and make logic independent of generated image dir

* Use parents=True when making dirs

* Save image before RegressionFileNotFound error

* Only save if failed image dir is not None

README.rst, after:

==============
pytest-pyvista
==============
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pytest-pyvista.svg?color=orange&label=pypi&logo=python&logoColor=white
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: PyPI version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista?color=orange&label=conda-forge&logo=conda-forge&logoColor=white
    :target: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: conda-forge version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pytest-pyvista.svg?color=orange&logo=python&label=python&logoColor=white
    :target: https://pypi.org/project/pytest-pyvista
    :alt: Python versions

.. image:: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml/badge.svg
    :target: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml
    :alt: GitHub Actions: Unit Testing and Deployment

Plugin to test PyVista plot outputs.

----

This `pytest`_ plugin was generated with `Cookiecutter`_ along with
`@hackebrot`_'s `cookiecutter-pytest-plugin`_ template.


Features
--------
This plugin facilitates the comparison of the images produced by `PyVista`. It
generates a cache of images from the tests, using the `PyVista` plotting
function in its first execution. Then, further executions will compare its
results against this cache, so if there are any changes in the code that break
the image generation, the comparison against the cache will notice it. Note
that there is an error tolerance in the comparison, so minor differences won't
fail.


Requirements
------------
You must have a Python version >= 3.9, as well as PyVista installed
in your environment.

pyvista version >=0.37.0 and vtk version >=9.0.0 required.

Installation
------------
You can install "pytest-pyvista" via `pip`_ from `PyPI`_::

    $ pip install pytest-pyvista

Alternatively, you can also install via `conda`_ or `mamba`_ from `conda-forge`_::

    $ mamba install -c conda-forge pytest-pyvista

Usage
-----
Once installed, you only need to use the command `pl.show()` in your test. The
plugin will automatically manage the cache generation if it does not exist, and
the image comparison itself. Make sure you enable `pv.OFF_SCREEN` when loading
PyVista, so the `pl.show()` doesn't pop up any window while testing.  By default,
the verify_image_cache fixture should be used for each test for image comparison::

    import pyvista as pv
    pv.OFF_SCREEN = True
    def test_succeeds(verify_image_cache):
        pl = pyvista.Plotter()
        pl.add_mesh(pyvista.Sphere(), show_edges=True)
        pl.show()


If most tests utilize this functionality, possibly restricted to a module,
a wrapped version could be used::

    @pytest.fixture(autouse=True)
    def wrapped_verify_image_cache(verify_image_cache):
        return verify_image_cache


If you need to use any flag inside the tests, you can modify the
`verify_image_cache` object in the test::


    import pyvista as pv
    pv.OFF_SCREEN = True
    def test_succeeds(verify_image_cache):
        verify_image_cache.windows_skip_image_cache = True
        pl = pyvista.Plotter()
        pl.add_mesh(pyvista.Sphere(), show_edges=True)
        pl.show()


Global flags
------------
These are the flags you can use when calling ``pytest`` in the command line:

* ``--reset_image_cache`` creates a new image for each test in
  ``tests/plotting/test_plotting.py`` and is not recommended except for
  testing or for potentially a major or minor release. 

* You can use ``--ignore_image_cache`` if you want to
  temporarily ignore regression testing, e.g. on a particular CI action.

* When using ``--fail_extra_image_cache`` if there is an extra image in the
  cache, it will report as an error.
  
* ``--generated_image_dir <DIR>`` dumps all generated test images into the provided
  directory.  This will override any configuration, see below.

* ``--failed_image_dir <DIR>`` dumps copies of cached and generated test images when
  there is a warning or error raised. This directory is useful for reviewing test
  failures. This will override any configuration, see below.

* ``--add_missing_images`` adds any missing images from the test run to the cache.

* ``--image_cache_dir <DIR>`` sets the image cache directory.  This will override any
  configuration, see below.

* ``--reset_only_failed`` reset the image cache of the failed tests only.

Test specific flags
-------------------
These are attributes of `verify_image_cache`. You can set them as ``True`` if needed
in the beginning of your test function.

* ``high_variance_test``: If necessary, the threshold for determining if a test
  will pass or not is incremented to another predetermined threshold. This is
  currently done due to the use of an unstable version of VTK, in stable
  versions this shouldn't be necessary.

* ``windows_skip_image_cache``: For test where the plotting in Windows is different
  from MacOS/Linux.

* ``macos_skip_image_cache``: For test where the plotting in MacOS is different
  from Windows/Linux.

* ``skip``: If you have a test that plots a figure, but you don't want to compare
  its output against the cache, you can skip it with this flag.

Configuration
-------------
If using ``pyproject.toml`` or any other 
`pytest configuration <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/reference/customize.html>`_
section, consider configuring your test directory location to
avoid passing command line arguments when calling ``pytest``, for example in
``pyproject.toml``:

.. code::

   [tool.pytest.ini_options]
   image_cache_dir = "tests/plotting/image_cache"

Additionally, to configure the directory that will contain the generated test images:

.. code::

   [tool.pytest.ini_options]
   generated_image_dir = "generated_images"

Similarly, configure the directory that will contain any failed test images:

.. code::

   [tool.pytest.ini_options]
   failed_image_dir = "failed_images"

Contributing
------------
Contributions are always welcome. Tests can be run with `tox`_, please ensure
the coverage at least stays the same before you submit a pull request.

License
-------
Distributed under the terms of the `MIT`_ license, ``pytest-pyvista`` is free
and open source software.


Issues
------
If you encounter any problems, please `file an issue`_ along with a detailed
description.

.. _`Cookiecutter`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`@hackebrot`: https://github.com/hackebrot
.. _`MIT`: http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
.. _`BSD-3`: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause
.. _`GNU GPL v3.0`: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt
.. _`Apache Software License 2.0`: http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. _`cookiecutter-pytest-plugin`: https://github.com/pytest-dev/cookiecutter-pytest-plugin
.. _`file an issue`: https://github.com/pyvista/pytest-pyvista/issues
.. _`pytest`: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest
.. _`tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _`pip`: https://pypi.org/project/pip/
.. _`PyPI`: https://pypi.org/project
.. _`conda`: https://github.com/conda/conda
.. _`mamba`: https://github.com/mamba-org/mamba
.. _`conda-forge`: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/pytest-pyvista
